Now I think we can begin working on the end of the animation where you just kind of looks around the
room and this is the point where I'd like to begin animating with this control so that maybe he looks
he looks down looks over and then I'd like it to look back right at the camera.
I'm going to try that.
So let's actually let's take a look at the animation real quick before we move on.
We've got him now so he kind of drops down and floats and then moves forward a bit and then turns off
his thrusters and drops.
And now we're to the point where he's going to look around the room.
So I'm going to change my timeline here.
Let's see what I just want him.
I'll just begin with him dropping so maybe right about here.
At 180
and all continue on to 360 here.
At least for now.
So what we have here is him dropping and then he should be doing his thing here.
Now one of the pieces of animation in the scene is going to be the camera and where he points the light
at the end is going to be dictated by where the camera is.
So if you go to the camera with the zero key this frame is going to be tighter on the Mac at the end
of the animation.
So it's going to be moving through kind of moving toward him I'm thinking beginning when he comes down
into the frame so maybe we should begin with this maybe I should increase the range here and we should
begin with that before we do anything else.
So to animate that camera I think I'm going to go back to the default view here.
And I think I'll split the screens like this and let's make this top one camera view here.
I'm going to re-enable that camera so I can select it in the scene.
I'm going to go to wireframe go the top view for right now just so I can see where the camera is.
So at this point I'm I I go ahead and keep the camera right here where it is at the beginning of the
scene.
Well hit.
And I'll just really I only need the location and the rotation.
I'm not going to be scaling the camera at all so I'll hit that.
The next thing I'll do is go right to where the camera needs to be after he's landed on the ground.
I'm thinking that if he comes down and lands here the camera probably needs to finish its movement right
around to 60.
So let's move the camera in at this point.
Now I've got autokey on him to save the scene before I make a major change here and I'm going to press
g and I'm going to move the camera in like this.
And I think I want to rotate it just a hair
well let's try this.
So I'm going to go back to the first frame and let's hit play.
Not bad but there are a couple of places within the shot where he's not framed real well.
So right here I'd maybe like to follow him a bit and just before he drops there's not enough head room
at the top of the frame.
I like the general feel of it.
But right here he's almost out of frame.
So a couple of things.
Let's take a look here.
So as he comes down into the frame
I think right here we should be tilting up a little bit to see more of that hole in the ceiling before
he comes down.
Well.
Another thing we could do is just move the keyframe.
So I'm going to go back to the animation view and here instead of having him I think I will wait to
begin the camera movement and tell about frame 40 as he's coming into frame and our eyes are distracted
by that movement and that's when I'll maybe hide the initial movement of the camera.
I really like to have camera movement be motivated or hidden.
In other words you swinging the camera around to see something that you've heard or as movement in the
frame happens.
Then you can begin a camera movement.
So it isn't quite as jarring.
There's our camera right here.
So I could just take this key frame and move it forward with the G key and just drag and move it forward
so there.
So now let's go back to that default view.
It's a little easier for me to see here.
All right.
So go back to the beginning and hit play
Yeah I think I'll go with that for now.
Let me also take a look at when he kind of goes out of frame right here.
It's not as bad now as it was because we've moved that first key frame forward all right.
So now I need him to look around a bit.
Let's go back to the animation window here.
So if I hit play he drops here and about this point he needs to begin looking around.
Well let's see.
I'm going to go I'm going to begin to 30 here and I'm going to go to my rotate tool.
And I'll just turn him a bit.
Now we need to anchor that don't we.
So I'm going to yeah at 225.
I'm going to anchor him there and insert a key frame with location and rotation here
and then at to 30 maybe to 35 I'll rotate them just a hair
OK.
So there's a bit of a turn there.
He hits turns a bit
as he turns.
Move this one back a bit
and then maybe here.
And be it to 60 he'll come up a bit
let's try that
I moved the Y location back so he begins the upward movement a little earlier.
So I'll push play
and then maybe have in turn back at 300
something like that yes.
Let's try that.
Move him in the X just a bit as he turns.
Let's watch that again.
Turns this way.
Feel like he needs to get down as he's going.
So we've got this as he comes up a bit move this
keyframe in the local Y and a move that forward like as he's coming up just slowly Let's try that
right.
I've done some adjusting here on the Y the up and down.
I'm having him come up a bit.
And then here I'm having him dip down as he turns.
I'm not sure exactly how this is working.
Let's take a look at it.
So he drops down.
He turns he turns back and dips a bit as he turns.
That doesn't look too bad.
So my thought is that when he lands he lands the light
the light scans.
So he he lands here.
And once he comes up the light comes down and looks forward and down to the ground and then he turns
and then the light swings over there to where he's looking over there.
And then he turns over here and then the light swings over and shines right into our eyes into the camera
here right about here.
So then at once he swings over here and takes a look.
Then the spotlight swings over at us and blinds us and we fade to white.
Well we're coming along in the next video.
Let's take a look at animating the spotlight.